>>REGINA MEREDITH: Dr. Edward
Group is with us once again,
always pushing the envelope to
support the most optimal health
we can possibly achieve.
Today we're going to
be talking about what
all the fasting trends
are about and how
to engage in a way
that is safe for us
individually because
we're all different.
Plus he's created a new form
of a raw herbal extract,
and we're going to
be among the first
to hear about this because this
is a whole new thing out there.
And I have to say,
first of all, welcome.
I haven't seen you
in a few years.
I think last time I interviewed
you, was it in Austin
or was it here?
>>EDWARD GROUP: I
think it was here here.
>>REGINA: Here.
And then at a conference
I see you here and there,
but you were-- when I talked
to you years ago you were just
starting to work on this
amazing tincture that--
you were just starting to
get your mind around it
in the research and
how to craft it.
And we're going
to talk about that
toward the end of the show.
Turn people on to something new.
>>GROUP: Sounds good.
>>REGINA: But first,
let's talk about fasting.
Let's talk about
ketogenics and kind
of kick starting
the immune system.
Let's talk about how
do you do ketogenics
when you're a vegan, and
all these different topics.
And start getting
into it because I
think we're seeing kind
of an overall breakdown
in immune systems
across the board.
A lot of chronic illness in
all ages now, and that's--
that's your specialty
is how to reverse that.
>>GROUP: Yeah, it's--
I try to do everything in
simplicity as you know,
and it all starts with looking
at the current situation
that we're in.
I mean, we have more
disease than ever before,
we have people suffering
from mental disorders,
from diabetes, heart disease,
self-esteem problems,
depression, anxiety--
the list goes on, and
on, and on, and on.
>>REGINA: You almost never meet
just a happy, healthy person
anymore.
>>GROUP: It's very rare.
It's very rare.
And astonishingly, I was
just traveling through Europe
and it used to be
you go to Europe
and you see people that
are very fit over there.
And now the same thing is
happening in all countries
around the world.
>>REGINA: Oh, are you noticing
that in the obesity trends
in Europe?
Yeah, I mean, I first started
noticing it in England
where when I first started
traveling to England
you didn't see much.
People walked a lot and
took public transit.
But whatever is going
on now with the diet
and-- and the drugs,
I mean, I don't mean--
I mean prescription drugs,
anti-depressants and so forth.
Massive obesity rates
in England now just
like the United States,
just like Australia,
and what are you seeing?
What did you see in
the rest of Europe?
>>GROUP: I'm seeing
the same thing,
and they're reporting the same
things that have been happening
here and in different parts
of the world for a long period
of time, but the
difference between what
I do and the research
that we all do here
is we look at what is the
root cause of these health
problems instead of
looking at the symptoms
and treating the symptoms like
the medical community will do.
The good news is more and more
doctors are getting on board,
and the good news
is more individuals
are getting educated by
watching shows like this,
by going online and actually
seeing and experiencing
their parents dying or
their parents being ill.
So this next generation
is a little bit more
educated as far as
natural health goes.
But how I got into
fasting was I'm
always looking for the
simplicity in healing the body,
because I believe we all
have a self-healing mechanism
within us that God has given
us that we have the ability
to heal any disease or any
condition that we have.
And that's really what we
determined in our research
20 years ago when
our research team was
hired to come and find different
types of natural medicine.
When the big cancer hospitals
were putting in the CAM
programs-- the complementary
alternative medicine programs--
they contracted us to go out,
and talk to all the cancer
doctors, and find out
what they were doing,
and find out what works
that they could bring in.
What we found by
talking to everybody
is that there's no need
for people to suffer
from any type of illness.
The most successful
doctors out there believe
that we all have a
self-healing mechanism,
and that we need to address
the root cause of the illness.
And when we address the
root cause of the illness,
the body will then
activate and heal itself.
And the mind and the soul
will merge together as one.
That's why I got into
detoxification and cleansing
because it's an easier way
to reactivate the body's
self-healing mechanism by
starting with cleansing
and healing the gut, which
is the number one organ
system that causes disease.
Because all of the
chemicals, all the
toxins that we consume enter
through the gut lining.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>GROUP: A majority, anyway.
>>REGINA: Yeah, years
and years ago, I
was-- when I first started
doing alternative medicine
coverage in media I thought, OK,
I'm going to take a cameraman,
go to Europe and do
this thing on my own,
and then I'll present
it to someone.
It actually got pretty far.
And what it was was
looking at energy
medicine of all kinds, color
therapy and such in Europe.
And I put this great little
series together of reports
and I remember this one
doctor, Dr. Wolfgang Ludwig,
who is just this amazing
wild physicist who
understood the nature of
health on an atomic level.
And he says, you
don't understand,
it is all in the guts.
Everything, all illness,
it's all in the guts.
And that's the first
time I'd heard that.
This was in the '80s, right?
People weren't
talking about it then.
You were a little kid.
And so I-- it stuck with me,
and I start thinking that
through the years.
And about time I
met you and others
it's like, oh my God,
it's all in the guts
and what we throw in there.
Really?
Yeah.
>>GROUP: Well, what
separated the doctors--
the doctors that we analyzed and
that we looked at their studies
that they have done and looked
at their patient success rates,
they were all doing
similar things.
What they were doing was
they were spending time
with the patient, number one--
asking the patient
questions, spending
more than seven minutes with
the patient, which now doctors
are spending seven
or eight minutes
and writing a
prescription medication.
They were actually
going to their house,
evaluating their environment.
And a lot of times that's what
we did when we had our cancer
clinic before it
got shut down is
we would-- you have to
understand the individual
and understand what's
creating that toxicity
with the individual.
And a lot of it is not only
what's inside the individual--
>>REGINA: But the
environment, yeah.
>>GROUP: But what's
outside the individual.
I mean, we went
into homes with that
had black mold all
over the ceilings,
we went into homes that
were just completely toxic
with toxic cleaning
products, toxic food.
I mean, all of the different
things that contribute
to somebody's toxic load.
And if you really
want to say what's
the root cause of all
disease and illness,
it's nothing more
than a toxic load.
If your body can only
process and eliminate
a million chemicals and
toxins on a daily basis
but you're bringing in three,
or four, or five million
on a daily basis, then all
of those chemicals and toxins
start congesting the liver,
start ruining the gut,
start leaking through,
and then that's
how the whole disease
process ends up starting.
So yes, we know now that
there is a simple system
that you can use.
Cleanse and heal the gut,
cleanse and heal the liver,
eliminate all the harmful
organisms from the body
because what we're
seeing now is just
everybody has an accumulation of
fungus, mold, bacteria, virus,
worms because of these
chemicals, and these toxins,
and these bad foods that
are creating an imbalance
of the body's natural pH.
That we're inviting all of
these organisms into our system
and they're living inside of us.
So cleansing all of those
out and then cleansing
all the chemicals and toxic
metals out is the last stage.
And many doctors have found
this secret over the years
to utilize this one system of
detoxification and cleansing.
And when they do that, the
body's self-healing mechanism
can then become reactivated
and the body can heal itself.
>>REGINA: Yeah, well, OK.
And so some of that takes some
real dedication and people
have a difficult time
sometimes, so we're
going to break it down.
We're going to go through the
different kinds of fasting
and first of all, let's
start with the whole notion
of ketogenics.
And now a lot of people do--
their ketogenic diet really
consists of just super low
to no carbs, right?
>>GROUP: Right.
>>REGINA: And so I guess
starving off lactic acid
in the cancer cells,
and that is one approach
that seems to be working.
But again, then you have
people with different dietary
patterns.
With ketogenic a lot of times
it's fats, it's animal protein,
and it's lots of
vegetables, as well.
Well, how would, for example,
a vegan use a ketogenic diet
or structure a ketogenic diet?
>>GROUP: Well, going back to
how the ketogenic diet was even
before under the history,
it really dates back--
and this was the research
that I had spent myself
and a research scientist
for the last two years
trying to dig back and find
the history behind what's
really going on.
And that leads us to
fasting, and fasting--
water-only fasting.
I call it hardcore fasting
because there is nothing
that I've found in
the last 25 years that
will heal the body faster
than water-only fasting.
Do I think everybody
needs to do it?
No, I don't think
everybody needs to do it,
but tracing the history
of water-only fasting
it goes back thousands
and thousands of years.
>>REGINA: Is this the beginning
of the ketogenic story?
>>GROUP: This is the beginning
of the ketogenic story
because that's how you
get in a ketogenic state.
There's two different ways.
You can do it through fasting or
you can do it through dietary.
But the original
form of ketogenic
is through water-only fasting.
>>REGINA: And when
did that originate?
Where did that--
>>GROUP: Well that,
you know, we--
>>REGINA: I would think the
indigenous species knew it.
>>GROUP: In the religious
texts like in the Bible
they talk about 40 day fast.
In the Quran they talk about
fasting, they still do that.
If you look back at
the ancient Vedic--
Ayurvedic technology,
they talk about fasting.
They didn't have
a lot of medicine,
and they didn't-- they only had
what God gave them or what they
had in nature to heal the body.
And part of the
healing process was
going into a ketogenic state.
And how that happens
is they would just
have water, sunlight, and
rest the majority of times.
Just like the ancient
physicians noticed
that when an animal
became injured,
the animal would lay
there and do what's called
a dry fast where that's
no water or food.
And the body-- the animal's body
would heal itself very rapidly.
And the animal's body would
go into a ketogenic state.
>>REGINA: Let's talk about
what's happening in a minute.
Finish this part,
and what's actually
happening in a ketogenic state.
>>GROUP: Right,
so what happens is
if you're talking about
water-only fasting.
That's the fastest way to
get into a ketogenic state,
and it's the fastest
repair mechanism.
Because it's like, we can talk
about the fastest and the most
effective form of healing
on the body ketogenic,
and then we can move
into the difference
between this rapid
type of healing
which induces stem cell
production and autophagy where
the body actually starts
attacking any abnormal or dead
tissues in the system.
None of that is going
to actually happen
in a feeding ketogenic state.
So there's actually
different phases
of being in ketogenic depending
on what you want to use it for.
You have the superb
healing ability
of water-only fasting
ketogenic state,
then you have the
dietary ketogenic state,
and then you have
the variations of all
the different ketogenic states.
But in general,
ketogenic state means
you've burned up
all of your glucose
because you've gotten
rid of all of the sugars
that you're ingesting or all
the carbohydrates that you're
ingesting.
And you've gone
onto a diet which
consists of mostly
fats or mostly high
proteins that are
not going to give you
high amounts of glucose.
So the liver, when the
liver runs out of glucose
through gluconeogenesis, it then
shifts into a state of ketosis.
When you shift into
a state of ketosis,
your body starts relying
on ketones for fuel.
And when that happens,
your body also
starts burning fat for fuel
instead of sugars for fuel.
So that can be very effective.
What's happened, in my
opinion, over the last--
probably just the
last five years
is that everybody
wants to come out
with some sort of
a ketogenic diet,
and I always look
back at nature.
Why was this used,
how should it be used,
and what is going to be the most
effective use of somebody that
wants to go into
a ketogenic diet?
Should they do it for
a long period of time?
Should they not do it for
a long period of time,
and what's the best
one for them to use?
>>REGINA: Well, one thing I've
seen repeatedly is the people
that take it on seriously--
they're not looking for
ways to kind of cheat,
you know, just straight up
fats, proteins, and greens--
green vegetables.
I do see what happens with
them, and it is pretty stunning
even when they're eating food.
And I can't imagine
how much more stunning
the results are when
you go with just water.
It's just that people
have such an attachment
to the notion of
food, and also there
is-- you do pay a little
price along the way.
And when you go into a
ketogenic state even with food--
because I've gone on some of--
an all green diet for a
little while just to cleanse,
and there is a period of time
where your mind is just edgy
and things don't
feel right at all.
So let's talk about
those various stages
of what you have to pass through
in order to get into that.
But one thing I noticed, they
all lost a lot of weight.
Their pains and aches
and their bodies
went away, so must be
the necrotic tissue
was by this time excreted
or whatnot, right?
And their immune systems
seemed to be pretty intact.
>>GROUP: Well, water-only
fasting and then ketogenics
were not used on a continuous
basis ever in the past before.
And now we don't really know
what the long term results are
going to be because
this is a trendy fad
and there's so many different
diets that are out there.
I really like
intermittent fasting,
using intermittent fasting
with a ketogenic diet.
But then if you're
looking at-- there's
just not enough
research out on it.
Most people that are
using ketogenic diets
are using it for weight loss.
Because the body switches
to burn fat for fuel.
>>REGINA: But
still you're having
high amounts of fat and
high amounts of protein.
And like you say, we
don't know how the body
handles that long term.
>>GROUP: Well again,
you know, you're
taking out some of
the nutrients that
can be extremely beneficial
for people like fruits.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>GROUP: And fruits are going
to contain fiber, oxygen,
minerals, lots of
fresh water in fruits.
So you know, the jury
is still out on what's
the best ketogenic diet.
I mean, when you look at
a vegan ketogenic diet,
let's say, what are you eating?
You're eating olives,
you're eating avocado,
you're eating different
types of oils,
you're eating very low
carbohydrate vegetables,
lettuces, stuff like that.
You're eating nuts, and
seeds, and basically water.
You you're still,
I think, missing
some really good
nutrients, and we
don't know how all of those--
specifically on a
vegan ketogenic diet
we don't know how all of those
results are going to turn out
and how the body's
going to sustain
that over a period of time.
>>REGINA: Well, I mean, I guess
the reality is if you're, say,
on a vegan ketogenic diet and
you choose to do it on a longer
term you can certainly add
in things like what is it--
Juice Plus all the kind of
enzymes and some of the things
that you're fully aware of to
add that some of the nutrients
and the enzyme from fruits back
into the diet via supplements.
It's not the same, it's
not exactly the same,
but you can add some
of it back in, right?
>>GROUP: Yeah, I think the
best from all the people
that I've talked to and
the research I've done
is that never to really
be on something too long,
you know what I mean?
Because even
seasonally in nature,
let's say if a family
is still living
on a farm they're
going to be growing
their vegetables in the spring.
They're going to be grilling
a different set of vegetables
in the fall or whatever.
They're going to be cycling
through different types
of foods.
And so I wish there was
some answer to where
there's one diet or there's
one special thing that
worked for everybody,
but I mean,
you really have
to know your body.
You really have to understand
what works with your body.
I do think, however, that
fasting can be incorporated in
and intermittent
fast is really--
>>REGINA: In any diet, yeah.
>>GROUP: --is really
something that
can be utilized for
any diet that you have.
And the research
is actually showing
how beneficial
intermittent fasting is.
>>REGINA: OK, so we're going to
go to intermittent in a moment.
Let's get back to water.
Let's talk about how long that
lasts, and the type of water,
and the phases people can expect
to go through because it's not
always comfortable.
>>GROUP: Well, the
first thing when
you talk about water-only
fasting probably
the number one benefit
from water-only fasting
is you shut down the
digestive system.
And this doesn't happen.
Water-only fasting is
abstinence from food completely.
That means not even
a grain of salt,
not even a grain
of pepper, nothing
but pure distilled water.
If you can get spring water
pure that's not contaminated,
the groundwater source,
then you can use that.
But pure distilled water.
Now, the interesting thing that
happens with water-only fasting
is around 72 hours or
around the fourth day
your body goes into what's
called an autophagy phase.
And the autophagy phase kicks
in because your digestive system
stops.
This is very amazing
what happens in the body
because researchers have found
that just one meal a day--
and this is another reason why
intermittent fasting works so
good-- they found
that one meal a day
can utilize up to 75% to
80% of your energy stores
that you have every single day.
So think about that.
You have people that are
eating one, two, three,
four meals a day,
snacking, but they only
have enough energy in their body
to break down one meal a day.
Not only that, but
people are eating
the wrong types of foods,
they're eating processed foods,
they're not able to chew their
food long enough until it's
a liquid.
Their enzymes are becoming
low in their pancreas.
Their food is sitting in
their system for 72 hours.
It's not digesting.
The proteins are
turning putrefactic,
the carbohydrates
are fermenting,
the fats are turning
rancid in their system,
and then they push another
meal right on top of that,
and they just keep pushing
another meal on top of that.
So the fascinating thing that
happens with water-only fasting
around the fourth day mark
is when the digestive system
completely stops
the body says, wait
a second, what's going on here?
Like all of my energy--
the 100% of my energy
that I'm now being--
that I've used for the past 20,
30, 40 years to break down--
because the digestive
tract is huge--
and to digest all of this,
and to get the liver working,
and to maximize the
absorption of everything,
and to bring these nutrients to
the proper organs is all gone.
So fasting is a rest period,
but it's a very intense healing
process for the body.
Because then when that
shifts and the body
goes into autophagy,
the body starts focusing
100% of its energy on healing.
And a study by USC about
a year ago came out
and said that 72 hours
of water-only fasting
produced immune stem
cells and regenerated
the entire immune system.
Now, you and I have been in
this field for a long time
and I can honestly
say that I have never
found anything that can
regenerate an immune system
and create immune stem
cells in 72 hours.
>>REGINA: Yeah, that's
pretty phenomenal.
>>GROUP: So people say,
well, what is autophagy?
You know, what is
this autophagy thing
that happens after
around the fourth day
of water-only fasting?
It's when the body
searches and destroys
any abnormal cells,
any abnormal tissue,
anything that's not functioning
at 100% inside the body.
And the body knows
intuitively where to focus.
So let's say PCOS in
women, polycystic ovarian,
fibrocystic, cancer.
They've even done studies
on Parkinson's disease
and had women that go
through a 21 day water-only
fast for Parkinson's disease
and completely eliminate
all the tremors.
And within one year's time
the Parkinson's disease
was completely gone.
Diabetes-- it doesn't
matter what it
is that you're suffering from.
This is the simplicity
of everything, right?
It's like are you really
saying that for $1.99 a day
that you can-- the body can
eliminate any disease known
to man except for genetic
diseases like Down syndrome,
but any acquired condition?
And I'm saying, yes, it
is possible to do that.
That will not happen
on a juice fast,
that will not happen on any
type of ketogenic, that will not
happen on anything else because
the digestive system is still
working.
>>REGINA: You know,
one thing that's
just striking me is
that oftentimes when
it comes to the studies
that come out on health
and nutrition, those
studies are often
you have to look at who
sponsored the study because you
have to look at who
stands to benefit from it.
But what's interesting about
this is if you're just talking
distilled water,
it's interesting they
took this study on
it all because there
wouldn't have been any really
big money behind it, right?
>>GROUP: Right.
University of Chicago has
been doing studies on fasting.
They did a study--
they took a 40-year-old
unhealthy guy
who was stressed out, they
put him on a 14 day water-only
fast.
When he was done
with the fast, they
redid all of his
physiological testing, all
of his biological testing,
and they found that in 14 days
he had the physiological
body of a 20-year-old.
He reversed his age by
20 years in 14 days.
The world record for fasting was
382 days from a guy in Scotland
that was medically supervised.
He was 480 something pounds
when he went into it.
Now, he did not do the full
382 days on water only.
He had some potassium
supplements, some--
no food, by the way, just
water and a few supplements.
He had some yeast a few
times during that fast.
But he went from--
he had all different
kinds of conditions.
He went from 400
and something pounds
down to 180 pounds in 382
days, and maintained that
into the future.
So fasting was really
big in the 1900s.
There was a guy named Arnold
Ehret who was promoting fasting
and saw over 40,000 patients
medically supervised fasting.
However, most of his
research was burned.
Most of the books were
taken up, most of the stuff
is hard to find because
when the American Medical
Association came in and
the pharmaceuticals--
>>REGINA: The usual story.
>>GROUP: --they closed
down all the spas.
I mean, remember all the mineral
springs that were everywhere?
When people needed to get
healed, what did they do?
They went to a mineral spring,
they drank water for 10 days,
they fasted, they got
healed, they went home.
>>REGINA: They
sat in the waters.
>>GROUP: So healing doesn't
have to be expensive.
Healing doesn't have to be hard.
We have everything that
we need to heal the body.
And nobody believed what he
was saying in his results
back then--
Arnold Ehret in the 1900s.
So he literally locked
himself in a glass chamber
with a notary public
and two physicians
watching him for 49 days--
days and nights-- and
had nothing but water.
To show people
that, again, we've
been conditioned to believe
that we have to eat.
>>REGINA: Hope he had
some good books to read.
>>GROUP: Yeah, right?
I mean-- but also fasting is a
spiritual progression, as well.
>>REGINA: Right,
right, and we'll
talk about that in a moment.
>>GROUP: So anyway,
just to prove to society
and to prove to the
medical physicians
back then that fasting is not
dangerous, although there's
been a huge campaigns
from the 1940s,
1950s on from the
big agriculture,
from the big food industry,
from the pharmaceutical industry
that all work together
that we need to eat more,
we need to have breakfast,
we need to have snacks,
we need to have wine, we need
to eat, eat, eat, eat, eat.
>>REGINA: Well, now we see the
evidence of what that brings,
yeah.
>>GROUP: And his main quote
was we are eating way more
than what the body can handle.
And that goes back to
the digestive system.
So when you think about
the root cause of disease,
it's really you talk a
lot about the energetics.
When you break everything
down, it's all into the energy.
It is the energy
of the food, it's
how much energy your
body has to heal,
it's how much energy that
we're absorbing from the sun
or from the environment.
And now we have people
slathering sunscreen
all over their skin and
staying away from the sun,
the one thing that can heal
you with water, and rest,
and being in nature.
>>REGINA: Well, to say nothing
of Harvard's new experiment
to try to dim the sun
through weather modification.
Don't even-- yeah,
let's not go there.
In any event, so you've gone
through the physical part
of it, and even as
little as 72 hours really
kicks this process in.
You're creating new
stem cells and so forth,
and your body's eating
the necrotic tissue,
and you should feel
like a million bucks.
Now, your mind might
feel a little kind of dim
along the way, but then
it starts clarifying.
Is that correct?
>>GROUP: Yes.
So what happens the first
few days when you're--
especially when you're
water-only fasting,
and the same thing
happens with ketogenic,
is you might get dizzy a little
bit, you might feel weak,
you might have a headache.
You know, those are just
some of the symptoms
that you might have
some muscle aches.
Usually around the
72 hour mark is
when your glucose
starts running down
and your body is
making that switch.
That's kind of the hardest
part for people to go through
because they think
that something
is going wrong in their body.
They think that-- they
feel it in their stomach.
They feel dizzy.
They feel like they
might have to pass out,
and it's kind of
a scary feeling.
They start feeling
a little anxiety,
they start feeling a
little bit of fear.
But honestly, that
feeling usually
only lasts for about an hour.
You usually have a hour
window where you're really--
>>REGINA: Making that
transition, yeah.
>>GROUP: One to two
hour window where
you're making that
transition, and that's
where people get scared in
that one to two hour window
and they end up
eating something.
If you can just sit down and
relax or lay down and let
it pass, usually at the
end of that two hours
whenever those ketones start
coming in to your blood then
you'll actually start
feeling more energy.
So with water-only fasting,
with going into ketogenic,
usually people will tell
you the first three or four
days are always the hardest.
And then, you know, your
body gets used to it,
and you start having more
energy, and more energy,
and more energy.
When I did my 18 day water
only fast, from day four
to probably like day
16 or so I didn't
feel like I was hungry at all.
I didn't feel like
I needed food.
The one thing I should have
done is not been so active.
That I learned not to be active.
Because again, if
you're active you're
utilizing your body's energy
and you're taking it away--
>>REGINA: From the
healing process, yeah.
>>GROUP: --from it being
able to heal your body.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Let's talk about the
spiritual component of it
because fasting has been
used for spiritual purposes
historically, right?
Through various
religions, and practices.
Indigenous cultures
use it as well.
So what happens when
the body is freed itself
from all this toil of
digestion and elimination
on more of a spiritual level?
>>GROUP: You
start-- it's amazing
what happens is when you
take food completely out
of your life and
you're just living
on water, first
thing you realize
is how much of your
time and your life,
it revolves around food.
It's kind of this
ah-ha moment that you
go through when you're not
thinking about what you're
going to cook or eat for
breakfast, where you're going
to go or what you're
going to eat for lunch,
what you're going
to prepare if you
need to go grocery shopping.
There's a massive amount
of time in our lives
that revolve around food.
So how does that work into
the spiritual component of it?
Well, when you don't have all
of these thoughts about work
and food, and you're
focused on your body,
and your body's in
a ketogenic state,
and you're in a
state of rest, it
allows you the time to start
asking questions out of boredom
maybe if you're
just sitting there
of who am I. But
your body is going
through this
transformational phase too,
so it almost forces you.
You start--
>>REGINA: But you're
this dizzying phase.
>>GROUP: It forces you to--
it's kind of hard
to explain, but it
forces you to almost go within,
and start learning more,
and start understanding about
your life more and what's
some of the things
that you were doing.
In like forgiveness
comes up and emotions.
When the liver starts
to become cleansed
when you're fasting, just like
traditional Chinese medicine,
emotions start to evolve.
Some of these--
negativity this negativity
or these negative
emotions that you store--
the anger, the fear, the guilt,
the resentment, the jealousy,
and the lack of forgiveness.
A lot of people say on
the fourth or fifth day
they'll just start crying and
all these emotions will just
start pouring out.
So fasting is a
cleansing, and that's
the spiritual component
that comes to it as well.
One of my favorite
fasting stories
was by a guy named Dr. Corrales,
and this was in the 1970s.
On the 17th day
of his water-only
fast, it was about 2 o'clock
in the morning, and he woke up,
and he had so much energy that
he felt like going for a run.
Well, he knew that
you're not really
supposed to go do any
physical activity,
and he tried to
go back to sleep.
And he couldn't
go back to sleep,
and he couldn't
go back to sleep.
And then he just had this
internal desire to just go run,
to go run.
He just kind of kept trying to
suppress it and suppress it.
Finally it just came to him,
it was almost like a vision.
And he got up out of
bed and he went running.
And he ran for four
hours straight.
And he said that at
the end of his run
he started seeing colors,
and he started becoming one
with nature, and
he started having
this incredible spiritual
experience of love.
Like he could literally feel the
love resonating from the trees.
Like the trees were
talking to him.
He could feel the
particles in the air.
And he said by that time the
sun was starting to come up
and he was walking
and walking after--
and he was in such
a state of peace
that he said he's never
experienced anything like it.
It was a sense of happiness.
And he described it as when your
soul, and your physical body,
and your mind merge together.
And he said he
wishes that everybody
would be able to experience that
experience that he experienced
in his life.
It was a spiritual
transformation
that happened to where
everything became one.
Like we were all connected.
And he could see and he
could feel the vibrations,
he could see the colors,
he could see the auras.
He could feel-- he could hear
the sounds and the melodies
that were-- that people can't
hear because we're so blocked,
and our pineal gland is so
calcified because the fluoride,
and the chlorine,
and all the chemicals
that we have inside
of our system.
So as those layers
start folding back
and as we start cleansing the
body more, and more, and more--
and water-only fasting would be
the most rapid way to do that,
to be able to have
that balance between--
or that perfect what
we're here for initially,
that perfect balance between
the mind, body, and soul
is what he
experienced with that.
And everybody experiences
something different.
Usually anybody who fasts for,
let's say, eight days, nine
days or longer usually has
some form of emotional cleanse
as well.
They're using water-only
fasting now for depression,
for anxiety, for mental
illness, which is usually
brought on by the toxicity,
by the electromagnetic
frequencies, by all the
chemicals, and the metals,
and all the things that
are going into the brain
these days.
Again, you know, addressing the
root cause of all those things
is what people
should be focused on
and what we're here
to teach people.
You know, here's the cause,
here's some of the things
that you can do to
regenerate or to live
that healthy, happy life that
is really all of our desire.
>>REGINA: It's a very,
very powerful story--
the story of water
fasting, and thank you
for sharing that with us.
And now let's look at
intermittent fasting
because that's something people
bite off in tiny little chunks
and start playing
with the notion
of not eating every few hours.
>>GROUP: Yeah.
That's a great
transition because I
am a big fan of
intermittent fasting,
and it all goes back to the
story about the digestion.
So if you know that 70%
to 80% of your energy
is going to be consumed
with three meals--
with one meal a day--
>>REGINA: Digesting food, yeah.
>>GROUP: --then we are
eating way, way too much.
People are eating way too much.
So this way you can still
eat and you can still
eat a good plant-based
organic diet,
avoid all the
chemicals and toxins.
And intermittent
fasting is something
that you can transition into.
You can start by just
skipping one meal a day.
Just pick one meal a day
that you want to skip.
Skip breakfast.
And that means going to
bed at let's say 9 o'clock
and then your next
meal is going to be--
>>REGINA: Lunch.
>>GROUP: --at lunch.
And some people
transitioning into that
might feel that, oh you know,
I really like eating breakfast,
but I usually skip lunch anyway.
So I'm just going to
skip my lunch meal
and then go into my dinner meal.
You can work your way up.
You know, you can
work your way up
till a general really
good intermittent fast
would be 16 to 18 hours a
day where you're not eating.
So a lot of people
that I talk to
will eat their first meal at
11:00 AM and their last meal
at 6:00 PM.
And then they'll fast all
the way on water until--
>>REGINA: And what
can be accomplished
in the 16 to 18
hours in the body?
>>GROUP: Amazing things can
be accomplished in the body.
Just giving the body
16 hours of rest--
now, that's not including
a whole other subject we
can talk about which is stress.
Because stress will put
you in a sympathetic state.
And when you're in
a sympathetic state,
you're going to be
secreting a lot of cortisol,
and your adrenals, and your body
is going to be out of balance,
and you're going to be
damaging your own body
with the chemicals
that you're producing.
And when you digest--
and when you eat food
you should always
be in a parasympathetic state.
And a parasympathetic
state means your digestion
is actually working.
Most people that eat eat
in a sympathetic state.
If you're eating or
watching TV, if you're
eating while you're driving,
if you're eating at the office,
if you're eating
watching the news,
doing anything that
could cause you to be in
a stressful situation,
and you're not sitting there,
and you're in a relaxed state,
then you are shutting down
your digestive process again.
Which you know,
your energy levels
are going to be
out of whack there.
So I recommend starting slowly
with intermittent fasting,
and that is something that you
can work into your normal diet.
And you can stay on an
intermittent fasting program
for the rest of your life.
Because we know now that we're
eating 80% more food than we
should be eating.
And then you can
start transitioning--
once you're on
intermittent fasting,
then you can start
transitioning into eliminating
more things from your diet.
Slowly eliminating
meat from your diet,
eliminating sugar, and
then slowly starting
going into a ketogenic or doing
ketogenic for a couple of weeks
and then transitioning maybe
into some more fruit or some
of the other good healthy
things, and then cycling in.
>>REGINA: What I noticed when
I was talking about that kind
of just a green-based diet--
mostly leafy vegetables, low
carbohydrate vegetables--
is that after that
period of time
was the amount of
just stuff that
is contained within your guts
that just eliminates, right?
And your whole
body feels lighter
in really a relatively
short period of time
by just releasing whatever
is causing all-- oftentimes
leaky gut, all the swelling
in the guts and so forth,
retention of water, retention
of garbage, and so forth.
It does have a very rapid
effect on just allowing the body
to feel svelte from the inside.
You know, regardless
of whatever weight
you're losing by way
of fat on the outside,
you just feel better,
and lighter, and cleaner.
It's really beautiful.
>>GROUP: You know, everything
is based on toxicity in food,
and for thousands
of years people
have gone through some form
of cleanse and detoxification.
And we've just lost
that philosophy.
If people were just to cleanse
their body on a regular basis,
eat healthier, take some
time to focus on themselves
through some
personal development,
spiritual development,
meditation.
It's really not that
hard when you just
incorporate a few things
into your daily routine--
proper sleep, dealing with your
stress levels, eating healthy.
And being aware that all
of these things that I'm
doing to myself are
damaging myself,
and I just need to take some
time for myself every so often
and cleanse my body.
People that go through
intestinal cleanses
sometimes have 15,
20 pounds of stuff
that they come out
of those systems.
>>REGINA: Yeah, it's crazy.
Just sitting in there.
>>GROUP: --forever,
forever, forever.
It's just like if you made three
meals a day in your kitchen
and you never
cleaned the kitchen,
what would happen after a week?
I mean, you would have
like mold and things
growing off of all your plates.
I mean, that whole kitchen
would be a toxic dump site.
I mean, you couldn't
even go in there
because it would just
be disease ridden.
And that's kind of what
happens inside the system, too.
I mean, it's just people are so
busy, and people are always--
there's so many things to keep
people looking outside of where
they need to be, and
their attention--
bringing their attention
in so many other directions
that they're having
a hard time focusing
their attention on themself.
>>REGINA: Indeed.
And I-- this just
flashed to mind.
Years ago-- it was an
amazing experience--
I went to visit a
man-- an old man,
he was 82 years old--
in the Sierra foothills.
And I had read about
him and thought, gosh,
he's not that far away,
I'm going to find him.
So I hunted him down.
I said, I'd love to come
and hear your life story.
Went to his place and
it turns out his name
was Stanley Burroughs.
Stanley Burroughs is the one
that created the lemonade diet.
He had a little tiny book
called "The Lemonade Diet."
And it's the one now
you find his formula
in every health food store.
Lemonade, maple syrup, a
little bit of cayenne pepper.
>>GROUP: The Master Cleanse.
>>REGINA: The Master Cleanse.
It was just called the
lemonade diet originally.
And the way he had
come into prominence
is that I believe it was
the governor of Oregon where
he lived at the time.
He was in the circus as a kid--
I mean, as a young guy.
He was just this wild,
passionate, very fit young man.
But he stumbled upon this, and
so he put the governor of I
believe Oregon--
I believe it was the
governor-- on the lemonade diet
because he had been
diagnosed with cancer
and it was pretty progressed.
And he was on the lemonade
diet or the Master
Cleanse for three weeks and the
cancer, of course, was clear.
So he was given the right to
practice his lemonade diet
in Oregon.
Coming to California
and living there,
people started
becoming litigious,
all kinds of crazy things
started happening to him,
and he started shutting down
his ability to work with--
he started shutting
it down himself
because he had been taken
to court over this one
really tough case where he put
a young man who has had cancer
on a lemonade diet
and then his mother
started insisting on
two coffee enemas a day
when he was in the hospital.
And what happened was
the kid died basically.
And they blame Stanley
for the lemonade diet, not
all the coffee enemas
and the other things
that were being done to him.
But the point is he's 82
when I met him and he was
a fruitarian at the time.
So there's no lack of carbs,
he was living on banana--
I saw they just brought in the
crates of bananas, oranges,
and apples, and that's
all he lived on.
And he had these massive
arms, and strong hands,
and he looked great.
Clear blue eyes,
handsome, youthful.
And it wasn't a sexual
thing, but he had just
married some 24 or
25 year old girl
to give her I think a
green card or something,
and she was just there as his
assistant bringing him fruit.
But the point was he was
living a really vital life.
And the guy was a master healer.
And I don't know that
people knew that about him.
And he could put his--
and he did this on me--
put his hands on
my throat, and did
like what we'd consider a
miraculous thing at the time.
And anyway, I never forgot
that because when ketogenics
came along and all these
other stories I thought,
it was interesting, he
does it on all fruit
versus all vegetables.
So there are many
ways to skin that cat,
but by and large you want to get
rid of the extra carbohydrates,
i.e. the glucose in
the body in order
to get that particular
effect going.
But what happens when you
use the Master Cleanse
diet or the lemonade diet?
Has a little bit of
maple syrup in it.
People still heal
from cancer and get
these incredible effects.
>>GROUP: Well, people still
heal the Gerson therapy, too,
on juicing.
I mean, you can do juice fasting
and just do nothing but juice,
or they had the grape diet that
came out years ago in the 1940s
and people would just eat--
it was called the grape
fast, and people would just
eat nothing but grapes
and chew the seeds.
And the fruitarian, people
just on a fruitarian diet.
>>REGINA: This is
what he was, yeah.
>>GROUP: It just
depends on all--
you know, I think that there's
a lot of different ways
that the body can heal itself.
It might take a lot.
It just depends on
how much time you have
and which method
you want to use.
With the lemon, lemon
juice is incredible
because it's the highest
concentration of negative ions
that you're putting
in your system.
And the negative ions are
going to, through an oxidation
reduction reaction, attach to
any positively charged toxins,
neutralize them,
attach to positively
charged harmful
organisms which I believe
and a lot of those doctors
believed back then,
including Roy Rife who
identified pleomorphism
where a bacteria can
change to a virus,
and a virus can
change to a yeast,
and organisms can
change that one
of the things that modern
medicine is not looking at--
and a lot of people
in our natural field
now know this because they know
that pretty much everybody is
overrun with yeast,
and Candida, and mold,
and all these things is
that how big of a role
do these organisms play
inside of our system.
So when you do do
a fruitarian diet
or you do start doing the
Master Cleanse, I think that--
or fasting, for example--
what happens is your internal
environment begins to change,
your pH begins to change, your
immune system becomes stronger,
and your self-healing mechanism,
you're allowing your body
to heal itself because
your digestive system
with the Master
Cleanse is not going
to be-- you don't
have solid foods,
like a lot of solid
foods in there.
>>REGINA: You get
a few tablespoons
of maple syrup a day.
>>GROUP: Pure energy, right?
Again, it's all about energy.
Your energy that you
have is not breaking down
big, thick, fibrous
protein meals.
You're just liquid,
and that's going
to be more energy that your body
can use to focus on healing.
Gandhi was a big
proponent of fasting.
Gandhi fasted one day
every single week,
and once a year he fasted
for eight to 10 days.
When he was assassinated
at age 78, when
they did an autopsy
on him they said
he had the body of
a 40-year-old man.
So just one day a week fasting
on nothing but water, one--
like let's say six days a year
would do tremendous benefit
for you as even with you
doing a fruitarian diet,
or you doing this, or doing
any type of live foods.
Dr Seyfried at the
University of Boston
just came out not too long ago
and said the exact same thing
that Gandhi said.
He said that if you fast for
six to eight days once a year--
just once a year--
he believes that will reduce
your chances of getting cancer
by 99%.
>>REGINA: That's amazing.
>>GROUP: So any of those
techniques-- juice fasting,
grape fasting, Master Cleanse--
you're just giving
your body a rest.
You're just-- anything that
you do to take time off
for yourself--
and it all starts with
detoxification and cleansing--
those are the most
successful ways
because you have to take
two steps back before you
take two steps forward.
One of the biggest mistakes
that practitioners are making
is people come in, they
look at their symptoms,
and they prescribe them
something for their symptoms.
So one of the big mistakes
that practitioners are making--
and it's not that the
practitioners are really
making mistakes, it's what
the practitioners are taught.
What they're taught
in medical school,
what they're taught in
chiropractic school,
naturopathic school.
They're still taught to address
the symptoms of the disease
or the condition instead
of the root cause.
Now, I love
naturopathic physicians,
I love chiropractors, I
love massage therapists.
Anybody who's doing any type
of energy work, anything that
can help anybody teach and
evaluate somebody and let them
know what the root cause
of their situation is.
But I still think that--
I'm still trying to
figure out why cleansing
and why fasting is
not being taught
in even the natural schools.
Because we actually
did a study--
>>REGINA: Yeah, why isn't it?
>>GROUP: I don't know.
We did a study which was
a fascinating study where
we took--
this was about 15 years ago--
20 to 30 people and we evaluated
them when they came in.
We had a health questionnaire.
They filled out all the things
that were wrong with them.
And we didn't fast them.
We put on an intestinal cleanse,
one liver and gall bladder
cleanse, a harmful organism
cleanse, and a chemical
and heavy metal cleanse.
Then we re-evaluated them again.
To our-- well, we weren't
too shocked about it,
but what we found was
all those symptoms they
had in the initial meeting,
most of those if not all of them
were completely gone.
And now they even-- now
they had additional symptoms
or different symptoms
from the initial meeting.
So what did that tell us?
That told us that pretty much
everybody out there right
now is being misdiagnosed.
Because if every doctor
was to clean-- you know,
you came in with
all these symptoms
and they were to
say, OK, what we
have to do is we have
to clean you out,
we have to go through
these cleanses,
and then come back in.
We'll reevaluate you and we'll
see what symptoms are there.
So that means most of the
diagnoses are wrong because--
>>REGINA: Well, in seven
minutes you're basically
looking skin deep.
I mean, of course
you're not going
to be able to diagnose
anyone in seven minutes.
So thank you.
This has been very inspirational
hearing the story of fasting,
and also I'm glad we're
looking at it from a lot
of different perspectives.
And now I want to talk
about your tinctures
just because I've been
wondering through the years
since we talked a few
years ago whatever
happened to that project.
And so I asked
you yesterday, you
said, well, funny
you should ask.
We're just now coming out
with the very first one.
So tell us about the
tincture project.
These are raw herbal tinctures,
and that's normally not done.
>>GROUP: It's a raw
herbal extract technology,
and as I was digging
deeper and deeper
into neutraceutical research
and trying to track back
how the herbs are grown, and
the process that it takes
from soil to
supplement, let's say,
for whatever you're
wanting to take out
there in wherever store you
go and get your supplement.
Most people don't
know that there's
a lot of different things
that happen from the time
that that seed is planted
to the time it actually
goes into the supplement.
So as I was looking at
different technologies
on how we can maximize all of
the components of the Earth,
how can we bring all
of the therapeutics in?
I had to go back to the soil
because the soil is where
pretty much everything happens.
So looking at what is
going on in the soil,
how the plants are
grown, and then
harvested has something
to do with it as well.
I mean, you could have people
with negative attitudes
harvesting plants or harvesting
at different moon cycles which
can affect the therapeutic
compounds of the plant.
And then one of the most
important things we found
is how the herbs
are actually dried.
And we found that
the majority of Arabs
out there are dried at 160, 150
degrees in these big driers.
So all of the essential
oils, the oleoresins,
like probably close to
75% of the therapeutic
constituents in the plant are
lost during the drying process.
And if they're not lost
in the drying process,
they're lost in the
powdering process
because those go
through the plant,
then it's harvested in
the leaves, and deleaved
or whatever.
And then it has to go through
a powdering process and it
usually goes through a
hammer mill, and then it's--
a lot of the constituents
in the therapeutic compounds
are lost during the
powdering process.
And then it goes to
the extraction process.
Well, no one's really
changed the extraction
or the tincturing process
in hundreds of years.
They're still using
alcohol, which
is an endocrine
disrupting chemical.
And alcohol still
denatures a lot
of the constituents
in the plants.
So we looked at how can we
change this up at every step
of the way to where we can
get all the constituents--
or as many as we possibly
can-- not do it in alcohol,
but even the extraction process
alone do a cold raw extraction
process instead of
having to heat--
it's like a tea, right?
You use hot water in your
tea and it extracts it,
but there's still a lot of
components left in the plant.
So we looked and
studied ancient alchemy,
Paracelsus' work from the 1400s
where he would never throw away
the plant material.
He would take the
plant material,
and he would extract the
salts from the plant,
and he would use
meditation over the plant,
and use different
types of basically what
he called a spagyric process
which was to separate
and then recombine the plant all
in one to bring it back to life
again.
So that's what we've been
working on years, and years,
and years.
Of course, the
ancient alchemists,
it takes a lot of time
and effort to do that.
And the ancient alchemists
would only make a small amount.
So we're trying to use
modern day technology, yet
the ancient technology,
and bring a true living
raw essence of the plant.
And we use a certified
organic vegetable glycerin
instead of alcohol, which we
developed a technique called
the glycerospheric technology
where we're actually
able to wrap--
like a lipospheric--
the components
of the plant in the
glycerin matrix,
and deliver that, and deliver
the full spectrum of the plant
to you in a raw herbal
extract technology.
I'll give you an example
of the turmeric product
that we developed
using this technology.
We took like six or
seven of the top selling
turmeric products that
are out on the market.
Dr. Rayne right now is a
doctor that's being able,
and he's been
advancing technology
to be able to test
for the quantum energy
levels in things.
That's kind of
what's been missing.
It's like we with the ormus
fields, and the energy
fields, and the
potency of things.
No one's been able to
really quantitatively test
with some device.
We can do energetic testing,
muscle testing, and things,
but not actually have real
live scientific testing
to test energy levels with.
And he tested ours versus
all the other ones out there
because ours has the salts
in it or the energy--
we call them energized trace
minerals that we take out
and we add back in.
And ours was 10 to 30,000 times
more energetically potent.
So it's like-- it's
almost like taking a wine
and then culturing it.
These formulas get better
and stronger with age
like the alchemy formulas the
Paracelsus was working on.
Like if you even leave by
mistake some of the plant
salts on a dish and you
come back three weeks later,
the plant salts are growing
and it grows off the dish
onto the desk.
I mean, It's amazing
what we can do.
But the whole purpose is to
bring the essence of nature,
and the balance of nature,
and the soil, and the seed,
and the plant, and all
of the constituents
that the plant has
grown specifically
for you to help you
bring that energy back
into your body to help you
address what needs to be
addressed inside your system.
And you know, that's
why I am still
a proponent of supplementation.
Even though we know
with water-only fasting,
and with detoxification,
and cleansing,
that's a starting
point to get your body
ready to accept the
nutrients, or the herbs,
or anything else that
you want to take.
And that way for
sure that you're
going to get a really,
really good effect.
Like most people on average
get between 2% and 10% activity
from whatever they're taking.
If you buy anything
from a drug store,
a big retailer like that, you're
probably just actually causing
more harm because you're getting
toxins through the magnesium
stearate, through the silicon
dioxide, and the titanium
dioxide, and the synthetic
vitamins, and minerals,
and nutrients that
you're taking.
>>REGINA: Don't bother.
And this process takes
10, 20 times longer
than a normal tincture
process, so how
are you working this out?
When are the products
available, when
are you kind of
up in production,
and what kind of
price point is it
going to end up at with that
amount of labor involved?
>>GROUP: Well, let's just
say if you were to take--
we were about to launch
our moringa, actually.
It's coming out on
the 4th of April.
You might have to spend five
times as much money taking
a moringa from the
store for three months
as you would taking
a raw herbal extract
moringa that's going to be
highly energized, highly raw.
It's going to have most of
the constituents in it--
a lot more than anything else.
The price points we're going
to try to keep affordable,
of course, because we just
want to help as many people--
>>REGINA: Within normal human--
you know--
>>GROUP: --as we can It's not
going to be outrageous price,
but you get what you pay for.
You could take a drugstore
based multivitamin for 10 years
and you're actually
getting worse.
You think you're saving
money, but in the long run
you're not because it's actually
causing harm on your body
instead of helping you.
Or you could pay
a little bit extra
and get more benefit from it.
>>REGINA: Right.
I was just wondering
if he's going to be
within a normal human reach.
>>GROUP: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK, good.
That's good to hear.
So what are you doing--
we only have like a minute left.
What are we doing
besides moringa?
What else are you working on?
>>GROUP: So have
turmeric, we have moringa,
we're coming out with a
holy basil or a tulsi,
and then we're coming
out with organ blends.
Like a blend for your
liver, and different blends
for your organs to
give you the support--
that organ support.
>>REGINA: Well, I'll
be cruising your site
waiting for them to come out.
And so--
>>GROUP: I'll be
sending you samples.
>>REGINA: Oh God, thank you.
Oh yeah, boy, that's the
lucky part of this job.
Thank you.
Yeah no, I really am
interested in seeing
what that feels like with
something so potentized
and energized.
And I know you've been
working on it a long time,
and I've been
wondering about it.
So Edward--
>>GROUP: It's been a
long time in the making.
>>REGINA: It has.
Thank you so much,
and I'm glad you're
back from your travels with the
kids seeing the world together.
I know your family is just
like peak health, no vaccines,
you guys are doing great.
Just loving life.
>>GROUP: We are.
It's-- you know--
>>REGINA: We didn't even
get into the vaccine story.
That's another whole
story that I would
love to do with you one day.
Let's do that, OK?
>>GROUP: OK.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So thanks-- thanks
for coming again,
and thanks for staying
on this product line
and really trying
to make it work.
I know it's taken a lot of work.
>>GROUP: Well, we're just
here to help as many people
as we can.
>>REGINA: I know you are.
I love that about you.
The name of Dr. Group's site
is Global Healing Center,
which has product lines as
well as educational materials
for optimizing your health.
globalhealingcenter.com.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."